{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\b\fs28 Mini-OS Implementation Plan (RV32)}\par
{\fs20 Date: 2026-05-29}\par
\par
{\b Overview}\par
- Goal: Minimal CLI-mode mini-OS for your single-cycle RISC-V CPU (Logisim + Chisel).\par
- Target: RV32I (32-bit datapath inferred). RAM `addrWidth=24` => ~64 MiB.\par
- Peripheral: no UART found; plan uses a memory-mapped console at 0x10000000.\par
\par
{\b Step-by-step tasks (ordered)}\par
1) Confirm ISA & memory map.\par
2) Install RISC-V cross toolchain (WSL recommended).\par
3) Create repo skeleton: `start.S`, `linker.ld`, `main.c`, `Makefile`.\par
4) Write linker script matching Logisim RAM/ROM layout.\par
5) Startup (`start.S`) and CRT0: set SP, call `main`, return loop.\par
6) Implement memory-mapped console in Logisim and `putchar()` in software.\par
7) Minimal C runtime + `main()` printing "Hello, MiniOS".\par
8) Add trap/exception handler and `ecall`-based syscalls (optional).\par
9) Add loader/bootloader or initialize RAM with binary.\par
10) Test on Spike/QEMU and then in Logisim/Chisel CPU.\par
11) Fix or add CPU instruction support as needed.\par
12) Iterate: timer interrupts, scheduler, small shell.\par
\par
{\b Suggested memory map}\par
- ROM/boot: 0x00000000\par
- RAM: 0x80000000 (or 0x00000000) — match Logisim wiring.\par
- MMIO console: 0x10000000 (write 32-bit word to print a byte).\par
\par
{\b Quick build/test notes}\par
- Toolchain (example WSL/Ubuntu):\par
  sudo apt update\par
  sudo apt install gcc-riscv64-unknown-elf binutils-riscv64-unknown-elf\par
- Build (example):\par
  riscv32-unknown-elf-gcc -march=rv32i -mabi=ilp32 -nostdlib -T linker.ld -o kernel.elf start.o main.o\par
  riscv32-unknown-elf-objcopy -O binary kernel.elf kernel.bin\par
- Run on Spike (if available): spike pk kernel.elf\par
\par
{\b Next steps I can do for you now}\par
- Scaffold the repo with `Makefile`, `linker.ld`, `start.S`, `main.c` (hello world using MMIO console).\par
- Show exact Logisim steps to add the MMIO console at 0x10000000.\par
\par
Which would you like me to do next?\par
}
